# Windows Subsystem for Linux

#### What is the Windows Subsystem for Linux? (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/)

The Windows Subsystem for Linux lets developers run a GNU/Linux environment -- including most command-line tools, utilities, and applications -- directly on Windows, unmodified, without the overhead of a traditional virtual machine or dual-boot setup.


 #### You can:

 - Choose your favorite GNU/Linux distributions from the Microsoft Store.
 
 - Run common command-line tools such as grep, sed, awk, or other ELF-64 binaries.
 
 - Run Bash shell scripts and GNU/Linux command-line applications including:
 
 - Tools: vim, emacs, tmux
 
 - Languages: NodeJS, Javascript, Python, Ruby, C/C++, C# & F#, Rust, Go, etc.
 
 - Services: SSHD, MySQL, Apache, lighttpd, MongoDB, PostgreSQL.
 
 - Install additional software using your own GNU/Linux distribution package manager.
 
 - Invoke Windows applications using a Unix-like command-line shell.
 
 - Invoke GNU/Linux applications on Windows.

#### What is WSL 2?
 - WSL 2 is a new version of the Windows Subsystem for Linux architecture that powers the Windows Subsystem for Linux    to run ELF64 Linux binaries on Windows. Its primary goals are to increase file system performance, as well as        adding full system call compatibility.

 - This new architecture changes how these Linux binaries interact with Windows and your computer's hardware, but        still provides the same user experience as in WSL 1 (the current widely available version).

 - Individual Linux distributions can be run with either the WSL 1 or WSL 2 architecture. Each distribution can be      upgraded or downgraded at any time and you can run WSL 1 and WSL 2 distributions side by side. WSL 2 uses an          entirely new architecture that benefits from running a real Linux kernel.

#### Install WSL
#### Prerequisites
 - You must be running Windows 10 version 2004 and higher (Build 19041 and higher) or Windows 11.
#### Note

To check your Windows version and build number, select Windows logo key + R, type winver, select OK. You can update to the latest Windows version by selecting Start > Settings > **Windows Update **> Check for updates. 

#### Install
You can now install everything you need to run Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) by entering this command in an administrator PowerShell or Windows Command Prompt and then restarting your machine.

**`PowerShell/CMD`**

```
wsl --install
```
This command will enable the required optional components, download the latest Linux kernel, set WSL 2 as your default, and install a Linux distribution for you (Ubuntu by default, see below to change this).

The first time you launch a newly installed Linux distribution, a console window will open and you'll be asked to wait for files to de-compress and be stored on your machine. All future launches should take less than a second.

#### Change the default Linux distribution installed
By default, the installed Linux distribution will be Ubuntu. This can be changed using the -d flag.

 - To change the distribution installed, enter: wsl --install -d <Distribution Name>. Replace <Distribution Name>        with the name of the distribution you would like to install.
 - To see a list of available Linux distributions available for download through the online store, enter: wsl --list    --online or wsl -l -o.
 - To install additional Linux distributions after the initial install, you may also use the command: wsl --install -    d <Distribution Name>.
 
 #### Tip

If you want to install additional distributions from inside a Linux/Bash command line (rather than from PowerShell or Command Prompt), you must use .exe in the command: ``` wsl.exe --install -d <Distribution Name>``` or to list available distributions: ```wsl.exe -l -o```.
